Statistics Assignment 1

1. What exactly is the difference between descriptive and inferential statistics?
Ans: descriptive :- process of collction and summarizing the data.(data can be population or sample data)
                    Descriptive statistics follows 
                    Measure of Centeral  Tendency
                        - Mean
                        - Mode
                        - Median
                    Measure of dispersion
                        - Variance
                        - Standard Deviation
    inferential :- In inferential we take a sample data from the population to analyse the data, and can predict the same with the help of sample data.
                    example:
                            Suppose there are 500 students in a college (population data), we can take 50 students data as a sample and can analyse the height of 500 data on the basis of sample data.
                    population denote by N
                    Sample denote by n


2. I'm not sure what is the difference between a sample and a population?
ANS: Sample :- 
     population :- population can be defined as collction of complete data.
     sample :- sample can be defined as a part of data exists inside the collction of data (population)
     example:- N = exam score data of 2000 students
               n = data of 500 students, through 500 data of the students we can predict the result of 2000 students

3. What distinguishes descriptive statistics from other types of statistics?
ANS: Descriptive Statistics:
        - Descriptive statistics is a process of collction and summarizing the data, it mainly focus on the summarizing the information from population data or sample data.

4. What is the difference between quantitative and qualitative data?
ANS: qualitative :- 
        - Discrete data - conatains whole numbers only, example:- How many childres does A have?
        - continuous data - Contains decimal number,whole number etc , example:- Height of the students. 

5. What is the definition of a percentile?

ANS:= percentile is a value below which certain observation lie.
      percentile = (number of values below x/total number of values) * 100